# Symmetric-and-Asymmetric-Cascade-Multilevel-Inverter
Titel: Minimizing harmonics in symmetric and asymmetric cascade multi-level inverters using improved TLBO algorithm
Authors: Hamoun Pourroshanfekr Arabani, Sajjad Ahmadi, Mahshid Javidsharifi, Josep M. Guerrero, Yazdan Ashgevari, Adel Akbarimajd*
Abstract: Due to the increase in multilevel inverters’ application in power systems, this research presented a novel algorithm to find switching angles in voltage source multilevel inverters in order to eliminate undesirable harmonics and to decrease total harmonic distortion of the output voltage. The inverter’s levels can be increased to omit more harmonics so that the degree of freedom increases. Another solution to augment the degree of freedom is to use pulse width modulation (PWM) which has more than one switching in each level. Both solutions lead to complex nonlinear equations, the solution of which is not possible using conventional nonlinear numerical methods such as Newton-Rafson approach. Consequently, improved teaching-learning- based optimization (TLBO) algorithm is employed in this research, in order to calculate optimal switching angles of the PWM voltage waveform in multilevel inverters. The TLBO algorithm benefits from the learning and teaching ability of students and teacher, respectively in order to improve the classroom's level of education. The teacher and students are the two main elements of TLBO algorithm. Accordingly, teacher and student phases are the major parts of the algorithm. One of the most important features of the algorithm is being independent to the algorithmic parameters since this algorithm has the least parameters among others. Consequently, the burden of parameters’ tuning which is troublesome in other algorithms, such as genetic and particle swarm optimization (PSO), is resolved. Switching angles should be calculated in such a way that the amplitude of the voltage generates the required frequency, while high order harmonics are not produced, or the total harmonic distortion of the voltage remains low. Simulation results for multilevel inverters demonstrate the effectiveness of the improved TLBO algorithm in determination of proper switching angles to reduce high order harmonics and to generate an approximately sinusoidal voltage waveform with a very low total harmonic distortion.
